Speaker 1: All of our Council members are here. Are there any disclosures of interest by any members?
Speaker 1: I'll
Speaker 1: take that as a no and we will record that. So we will move to item 3 which is the confirmative degrees and you will have noted for obvious reasons it's a slightly longer list. It's by the authority vested in me by resolution of the University of Auckland Council, I Scott St John
Speaker 1: and conferred the degree stated upon those who within their several faculties have satisfied the requirements of this university.
Speaker 1: And
Speaker 1: we will move similarly to the award of diplomas. By the authority vested in me by resolution of the University of Auckland Council, I, Scott St John Chancellor, award the diplomas stated to those who within their several faculties have satisfied the requirements of this university.
Speaker 1: So that done, we will deal with the Minutes Part A from the meeting of 16 March, which seems like an eternity ago, but we're all sitting face to face. Then, has anyone got any comments on those Minutes?
Speaker 1: So
Speaker 1: we will take them as a fair and accurate view.
Speaker 1: I will move. Can someone second please?
I'm
Speaker 2: happy to Scott, Cathy.
Thanks,
Speaker 1: Cathy. All those in favour, say aye. Aye. Aye. Against. Carried. So we will now move to the Vice-Chancellor's report. Dawn, we welcome you.
Speaker 3: Thank you Chancellor and
Speaker 3: hello
Speaker 3: to everyone
Speaker 3: who
Speaker 3: is not visible on the screen.
Speaker 3: What
Speaker 3: I'd like to do is I'll just talk through some of the highlights in the report and I may also ask Adrian to comment
Speaker 3: on
Speaker 3: one or two of the items that are contained. It's quite a lengthy report so I'm taking it as read.
Speaker 3: I
Speaker 3: want to start by acknowledging the outstanding achievement that was announced
Speaker 3: last week for the university to remain and retain
Speaker 3: its
Speaker 3: number one slot
Speaker 3: as
Speaker 3: the university leading on the sustainable development goals
Speaker 3: through
Speaker 3: the times higher education rankings. It's a significant achievement to retain that
Speaker 3: ranking,
Speaker 3: not least because of the increase in numbers of universities that submitted in a whole range of areas. So I want to start by acknowledging that and congratulating all of the staff that have been involved in
Speaker 3: that achievement to date and of course we retain it for a year
Speaker 3: so
Speaker 3: please feel free to talk about it and to continue to
Speaker 3: get
Speaker 3: behind that achievement wherever you can in whatever forum you can.
Speaker 3: The
Speaker 3: other thing I'd just like to acknowledge in this report is that you'll see that we've been able to
Speaker 3: quite
Speaker 3: extensively include the work of the PVC
Speaker 3: Pacific so
Speaker 3: Damon has now started to infuse
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: work of this strategy throughout
Speaker 3: number of the KPIs and we're seeing those throughout the report and I'll refer to some of those
Speaker 3: as
Speaker 3: we go through.
Speaker 3: So
Speaker 3: I'm going to just pick out, I'm not going to focus too much on
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: health and safety highlights. Of course we're happy to take questions on any of these items
Speaker 3: and
Speaker 3: I'll move actually through to item two. I've already mentioned some of the work
Speaker 3: that's
Speaker 3: in item two that has come through from
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: PBC Pacific.
Speaker 3: and the strategic plan that's being developed there. And the goals of the academic leadership framework which were endorsed
Speaker 3: by
Speaker 3: the VCDD and which will be really important in terms of supporting
Speaker 3: student
Speaker 3: -centric decisions as we go forward. So
Speaker 3: very
Speaker 3: pleased to see that now starting to take shape and be implemented.
Speaker 3: Under
Speaker 3: 2.9, just I think most of you will be aware but
Speaker 3: one
Speaker 3: of the
Speaker 3: key issues around particularly the Covid agenda and with a new vice chancellor coming in
Speaker 3: has been the importance of
Speaker 3: me
Speaker 3: getting in front of the staff and having the staff across and aware of the developments
Speaker 3: and
Speaker 3: decisions that are being made in response to
Speaker 3: Covid
Speaker 3: -19 and also in preparation for our new strategy.
Speaker 3: And so there have already been a couple of all staff forums.
Speaker 3: These
Speaker 3: would normally be face to face, but of course we're managing them
Speaker 3: online
Speaker 3: at the moment and there's going to be a further forum tomorrow
Speaker 3: with
Speaker 3: an opening to talk about what the IMT group are doing and
Speaker 3: to
Speaker 3: talk more broadly about the student engagement and research activities.
Speaker 3: They've
Speaker 3: been really well attended and we'll continue to do them throughout this period of time where we're unable to meet face to face. Importantly, there are numerous questions coming through those forums.
Speaker 3: And
Speaker 3: what we've done is collated the questions that we've been unable to answer directly in the forum and put together a web page where we've got frequently asked questions where we're attempting to address the concerns and the questions of the staff, which of course are very broad and I'll come back to that in a moment. On item three, I wasn't going to spend too much time talking about the Fs. This is one of the things that of course we'll be talking about.
Speaker 3: on the agenda later. But we've already heard today and the work that's ongoing that you're aware of from Auckland Online and the opportunities for the development of micro-credentials and the summer school activities which are referenced within this particular item.
Speaker 3: Again,
Speaker 3: happy to take questions on that and I'm sure
Speaker 3: that
Speaker 3: other members of the team would be willing to do so as well.
Speaker 3: One
Speaker 3: thing just to say is that we did run a specific forum for all postgraduate students.
Speaker 3: Jim
Speaker 3: led that with Carolyn last week and that was another really well attended forum and an important forum for the researchers and the postgrad students to think about how they can continue with business continuity in this period through the level three and potential level three alert lockdowns.
Speaker 3: If I go then to item 4 here, high quality research, again
Speaker 3: we
Speaker 3: can see that there is some input this time from our PVC Pacific. We are going to be addressing a number of things related to ethics and research on our agenda later, so I'm going to leave it at that and go directly to Sustainable Autonomous University.
Speaker 3: and
Speaker 3: acknowledging under 5.3 the major gifts and pledges
Speaker 3: that
Speaker 3: were received in January and February
Speaker 3: of
Speaker 3: this year, which are significant and outstanding. And you'll note the commentary there around
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: foundation. And of course,
Speaker 3: in
Speaker 3: the first six weeks of my tenure, I have been able to write to our
Speaker 3: donors
Speaker 3: and alumni and attempt to
Speaker 3: keep
Speaker 3: a level of engagement around the activities
Speaker 3: both
Speaker 3: that they've committed to but also engage them in the activities that we're
Speaker 3: planning
Speaker 3: around the student student hardship going forward.
Speaker 3: I'll
Speaker 3: continue to move through and I wanted to pick up
Speaker 3: on
Speaker 3: item seven and particularly around the treaty
Speaker 3: but
Speaker 3: to recognise
Speaker 3: actually
Speaker 3: the launch of the Toreo language plan
Speaker 3: which
Speaker 3: was launched on the 7th of April and this is a really significant achievement and I want to congratulate the team
Speaker 3: that have been involved
Speaker 3: in
Speaker 3: getting us to this point. And I believe tomorrow we're going to be able to launch the app
Speaker 3: that
Speaker 3: goes with that. So
Speaker 3: a
Speaker 3: really outstanding development there.
Speaker 3: If
Speaker 3: I can then perhaps move on
Speaker 3: to, I
Speaker 3: think I'll go directly to item nine.
Speaker 3: As
Speaker 3: you will no doubt be aware, a significant amount of time has gone into the responses to COVID-19.
Speaker 3: and that's quite a condensed report but it doesn't really take account of the extensive work that the team have been involved in and the staff have responded to and it's been phenomenal to see the way in which the staff have responded
Speaker 3: to
Speaker 3: the significant ask
Speaker 3: that
Speaker 3: has been required of them over the last few weeks.
Speaker 3: I
Speaker 3: think
Speaker 3: it's worthwhile
Speaker 3: pointing out that under 9.4
Speaker 3: accommodation,
Speaker 3: you may have
Speaker 3: read
Speaker 3: over the weekend that there was some media interest around
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: ways in which we've continued to
Speaker 3: charge
Speaker 3: student fees
Speaker 3: around
Speaker 3: accommodation and the comments around that from the various
Speaker 3: members
Speaker 3: of the community and from the community.
Speaker 3: from members of parliament, but also
Speaker 3: particularly
Speaker 3: because different universities have taken a different tack on this.
Speaker 3: We've
Speaker 3: been very clear about the way in which we've addressed this and
Speaker 3: have
Speaker 3: made a very
Speaker 3: detailed
Speaker 3: response to the media. They have not necessarily picked it all up with accuracy. And a lot of what was in the media at the weekend wasn't accurate, but we have been able to respond fully
Speaker 3: to
Speaker 3: the questions that have been
Speaker 3: asked
Speaker 3: of us, both
Speaker 3: from government and from
Speaker 3: parents
Speaker 3: who have been quite concerned about some of the things that they've been reading.
Speaker 3: I think then finally I might just move to
Speaker 3: something
Speaker 3: that's not in the report today
Speaker 3: but
Speaker 3: it is relevant to the work that we're doing around the
Speaker 3: planning
Speaker 3: for the workforce of the future and
Speaker 3: particularly
Speaker 3: recognising that staff at the moment are of course concerned about employment security
Speaker 3: in
Speaker 3: the immediate term. And I've made very clear statements that no long-term plans will be made at the moment around the workforce planning because we're developing new strategy and it's going to be important that the strategy
Speaker 3: leads
Speaker 3: those decisions.
Speaker 3: However,
Speaker 3: we have received from the State Service Commission
Speaker 3: some
Speaker 3: information yesterday and today related to restriction
Speaker 3: around
Speaker 3: the pay and
Speaker 3: pay freezers
Speaker 3: for
Speaker 3: staff going forward and there'll be a communication going out around that
Speaker 3: tomorrow
Speaker 3: and we have an all staff form tomorrow so we'll make sure that we're really
Speaker 3: clear
Speaker 3: about the impact of that for staff
Speaker 3: having
Speaker 3: said that
Speaker 3: it's
Speaker 3: quite clear if you look at the information that's come through the state service commission that what's already been agreed
Speaker 3: through
Speaker 3: our
Speaker 3: enterprise
Speaker 3: bargaining will remain
Speaker 3: for
Speaker 3: the period
Speaker 3: so
Speaker 3: i think i'll leave it at that i'm very happy to take questions
Speaker 3: on
Speaker 3: any matters of the report. And of course, happy Adrian, if you think there are other things that it might be worthwhile bringing to the council's attention.
I
Speaker 1: just wonder, Dawn, look, there is so much work to do on the strategy and there is so much that we don't know, but
Speaker 1: you
Speaker 1: are evolving your thinking in terms of the way that you're going to communicate the evolution of the strategy.
Speaker 1: and the communication and interaction with stakeholders going forward. Can you just comment on that most particularly for the benefit of folk who are listening in?
Speaker 3: Thanks, Chancellor, for the opportunity to do that. So really importantly, recognising that the pressing, the most pressing activity for us at the moment is to develop that strategy and vision.
Speaker 3: And
Speaker 3: within that will be the five-year strategic plan,
Speaker 3: a
Speaker 3: vision that takes us out way into the 2020s to 2030 and
Speaker 3: falling
Speaker 3: out of that, then the annual plans that are looked at on a three-year rolling cycle.
Speaker 3: To
Speaker 3: do that and the process we're going to go through, it's going to be really important that we
Speaker 3: engage
Speaker 3: the staff and, in fact, the student body in that work, as well as our external stakeholders
Speaker 3: in
Speaker 3: a variety of ways.
Speaker 3: in an interactive way. And so as we start to develop the green papers, these papers will be developed and indeed worked through a series of workshops and town halls
Speaker 3: and
Speaker 3: forums and our existing committee structures and our existing informal meeting structures by way of testing out
Speaker 3: our
Speaker 3: thinking, the horizon scanning,
Speaker 3: how
Speaker 3: we want to be seen in the future, the value add that we can do.
Speaker 3: can make into the future in terms of both our contribution to
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: nation but beyond that
Speaker 3: into
Speaker 3: Oceana and to ensure that we are engaging with staff in a way that they feel this is a strategy
Speaker 3: that
Speaker 3: we all own and share.
Speaker 3: The
Speaker 3: most important part for me of that strategy is really about getting the people and culture settings right. So whilst it's important to be clear about purpose
Speaker 3: and
Speaker 3: important to be clear about the direction of
Speaker 3: of travel, it's the people and culture strategy that really sets the tone. And so going through the development of the strategy, we'll be making sure that we are involving people and
Speaker 3: giving
Speaker 3: some serious thought to the culture
Speaker 3: that
Speaker 3: we are inhabiting within the university and how people interact with us and how we interact with others. And that's something that all staff can be involved in. So even if staff are not directly involved
Speaker 3: in
Speaker 3: the development of the research strategy,
Speaker 3: or
Speaker 3: the campus master plan, the estate strategy or the financial targeted plan,
Speaker 3: they
Speaker 3: will all have an opportunity to be a part of the values clarification
Speaker 3: and
Speaker 3: the defining characteristics of the university going forward.
Thank
Speaker 1: you. And just one point that might be of interest to also the folk on the call. Obviously, we're running our accommodation.
Speaker 1: We still have a big pastoral care wrap around that, but we've also got a very large population of students still in the halls. Can you just refresh my memory as to how many students there are that we've still got on campus in the halls?
Yep,
Speaker 3: I might just ask Adrian to give an update on that.
Speaker 1: Something over a thousand I seem to.
It's
Speaker 4: about
1500.
Speaker 1: 1,500. Yeah. Okay. Thanks, Adrian, which I think is somewhat different to what you're seeing in some of the other jurisdictions or other institutions. So with that said, questions or comments from Council for the Vice-Chancellor.
you
Speaker 2: say, Dawn, you prepared something that you sent to the media. I wonder if you could circulate that to Council so that we've got a clear understanding that when we're, you know, asked by people, that we have a clear understanding of what's going on with the accommodation.
I
Speaker 3: think that's a really good idea Cecilia so we've we had a drafted response that went also out to
Speaker 3: Chloe
Speaker 3: Swarbrick and a few others who've been interested in knowing what we're doing so we've got some very
Speaker 3: very
Speaker 3: clear messages which may be helpful for you to be able to share if people are asking you.
Speaker 2: That'd be great thank you.
Speaker 5: Tonsa, just through you. Congratulations on the sustainability award, that's fantastic.
Speaker 5: I'm
Speaker 5: not sure how big the application is, but it would be
Speaker 5: quite
Speaker 5: useful if it's not too big to pop that into the Resource Centre for Diligence so we can see what factors we're reporting on and what activities we're doing, because we don't really have a great deal of visibility of what was in that
Speaker 5: report
Speaker 5: or that application.
Wendy
Speaker 1: could we perhaps get you to chase that up.
It is
Speaker 6: extremely large. It
is
Speaker 3: quite extensive and Pamela I'm just wondering if you could do if there's a way of summarizing it in some way.
Speaker 6: I think we would be better to summarize it because it's a response to quite specific questions and
Speaker 6: quite
Speaker 6: a large part of the set of information
Speaker 6: We don't actually have because they're research metrics that Thompson's Reuter, that Elsevier develop
Speaker 6: and
Speaker 6: that the Times Higher people use. So we have a set of scores that we can send through but the portfolio itself is quite
Speaker 5: considerable. Okay well maybe an executive summary then.
Speaker 5: Yeah.
Speaker 5: Thank you. And just in terms of the strategy I mean that's quite a
Speaker 5: useful piece of work, although a bit distracted at the moment with COVID-19 activities. Presumably that will also cover sort of our view of workforce for the future and any paradigm shifts and international versus domestic.
So
Speaker 3: exactly that. So of course, part of the strategy, we're looking at the size, shape and composition of the university going forward
in
Speaker 7: the
Speaker 3: context of the global shift, which is a paradigm shift in
Speaker 3: high
Speaker 3: as well as
Speaker 3: what's
Speaker 3: relevant for us in terms of UOA in the nation and in our region.
Speaker 3: That
Speaker 3: includes looking at for example the ratio of undergrad
Speaker 3: to
Speaker 3: postgrad, the ratio of international to domestic, the ratio, the mix
Speaker 3: in
Speaker 3: terms of discipline mix, there's a whole set of parameters that we look at there and of course there's also the volume and quality question as well because we're a research intensive university and it's important
Speaker 3: It's important that we make sure that what we develop is distinctive for the longer term.
Speaker 3: Good.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
So
Speaker 4: other questions? Okay, so we will
Speaker 8: note that report. Thank you
for
Speaker 1: that. Can you hear me? Yes, go ahead, John.
Speaker 8: Yeah, I just wanted to ask Dawn. She mentioned that the Te Reo language
Speaker 8: Plan was being launched tomorrow. And she acknowledged Cindy and the team and I just want to tote that acknowledgement of them. But is that going to be accessible in any way for
Speaker 8: people
Speaker 8: like myself and others that are not on campus
Speaker 8: to
Speaker 8: have a look at?
Yeah,
Speaker 3: so I'll make sure that
Speaker 3: we
Speaker 3: circulate the information around that about that to you, John, because
Speaker 3: the
Speaker 3: language plan
Speaker 3: The app is going to be launched tomorrow. If it's not tomorrow, it will be Monday. But yes, that's something that I'm hopeful will mean that people will start to use that app as opposed to some of the other ones that are available that have been produced through the universities in New Zealand.
Okay,
Speaker 1: thanks. Right, so we'll note that report and we will move to Senate matters. And I think I saw John Morrow earlier. I think he's
Speaker 1: somewhere
Speaker 1: nearby. John, are you there?
Speaker 9: Yes, I am, Scott, yes.
I
Speaker 1: am comforted by that. Right, where are your hands?
Okay,
Speaker 9: thanks.
Speaker 9: Thank you very much, Chancellor. Part A recommendations from Senate requiring to be considered
Speaker 9: and
Speaker 9: received by Council. Of the academic matters, there are four new academic programs which have been developed by the Faculty of Business and Economics, and we seek approval
Speaker 9: for
Speaker 9: these programs to be advanced to QAP for its consideration. These programs are interesting.
Speaker 9: ones. The first involves changes to the Bachelor of Commerce, the major undergraduate term qualification in that faculty. And the main points about the change are to introduce a multidisciplinary core of four courses in the first year, and also to produce a capstone or to acquire a capstone course in the last year of study, which gives
Speaker 9: students and give students an opportunity to integrate what they've learned over the course of their studies. And this revised program reflects the outcome of program reviews and significant work by the faculty.
Speaker 9: In
Speaker 9: addition, there are three postgraduate qualifications, a Master of Business Analytics, a Master of
Speaker 9: A Master of Business with some discrete specialisations and also a Master of Information Governance. The last of these programmes has been developed by the Department of Commercial Law. These programmes are all available in 180 or 120 versions for candidates with appropriate entry qualifications.
Speaker 9: And these programs reflect the faculty's attempt to identify new areas which will meet the needs of the business and wider community in New Zealand. That's all I have to say on the Senate matters, Chancellor.
So
Speaker 1: questions for John regarding the Senate matters.
Speaker 5: Okay. Sorry, Scott. Sorry, John.
Speaker 5: Can
Speaker 5: you just confirm to me, does the capstone course, it doesn't add time to the sort of minimum time of the degree, does it?
No,
Speaker 9: it's part of the regular structure of the program, and it's taken typically in the last semester of the
Speaker 9: last semester of study. So that's a
Speaker 5: compulsory course.
Speaker 9: It's a compulsory course. Students have have a great deal of flexibility about what particular focus they take in in responding to that opportunity.
Right. Okay. Which
Speaker 5: is quite a quite a change for the commerce degree.
Speaker 9: It is yes and it follows capstones which have been introduced in other in other in other programs.
So
Speaker 5: this will be part of our strategic thinking then, going forward.
Speaker 5: If
Speaker 5: it's considered an appropriate way to
Speaker 5: close
Speaker 5: out a course, then
Speaker 5: perhaps
Speaker 5: it's applicable across the wide range of courses.
Yes,
Speaker 9: I think that's the case. And it provides students with an opportunity to reflect on the range of components that they've studied in the course of a programme.
Speaker 9: and to pull them together in some sort of coherent and interesting way.
Speaker 9: Okay,
Speaker 1: thank you.
Speaker 1: And I know there was a really good list of people who had input into that work.
Speaker 1: So anything else on Senate?
Speaker 1: That
Speaker 1: being the case, I will move that the recommendations in part of the report of Senate from April this year be adopted.
Speaker 1: and that Part B and C be noted. Can I have a seconder, please?
Speaker 5: I will.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. Who was that? Who was it?
Speaker 5: Kath.
Speaker 1: Kath, beautiful. There you are. There's your smiling face. It's tricky. All those in favour say aye. Aye. Against. Carried. Thank you. So we'll move to correspondence.
Speaker 1: echoing what Dawn said a little earlier, I got as Chancellor last night a note from Peter Hughes, who's Head of State Services, just encouraging pay restraints. So there's nothing new in that.
Speaker 1: So
Speaker 1: is there any other correspondence that I'm not aware of
Speaker 1: that
Speaker 1: I need to be aware of? No.
Speaker 1: So we will move to item 9. Other decisions for noting. Is there anything else?
Speaker 1: I
Speaker 1: don't think so. Is there any general business?
Speaker 1: Anyone
Speaker 1: require a leave of absence?
Speaker 1: That
Speaker 1: being the case, we will move to part B and I will move that the public be excluded from part B of this meeting.
Speaker 1: However, that Adrian Clelland, Professors Metson, Morrow and Morrow, Peter Gutzel, Pamela Moss, Todd Somerville, Bridget Fitzpatrick, Wendy and Richard Elliott be permitted to remain.
Speaker 1: And
Speaker 1: with that said, we will move to part B.
Speaker 1: Do you need to give
Speaker 4: me
Speaker 4: a
Speaker 4: signal? Maybe. We're all good, Scott. Thank you. We're all
Speaker 4: good.